V8 Engine:
       Microprocessors are tiny machines that work with electrical signals and ultimately 
do the job. We give microprocessors the instructions. The instructions are in the 
language that microprocessors can interpret. Different microprocessors speak different 
languages. Some of the most common are IA-32, x86–64, MIPS, and ARM. These 
languages directly interact with the hardware so the code written in them is called 
machine code. Code that we write on our computers is converted or compiled into 
machine code.
     High level languages are abstracted from machine language. In the level of 
abstraction below, you can see how far JavaScript is abstracted from machine level. 
C/C++ are relatively much closer to the hardware and hence much faster than other 
high level languages. 
     V8 is a powerful open source Javascript engine provided by Google. So what 
actually is a Javascript Engine? It is a program that converts Javascript code into 
lower level or machine code that microprocessors can understand.
       Chrome V8, or simply V8, is an open-source JavaScript engine developed by 
The Chromium Project for Google Chrome and Chromium web browsers.[5] The 
project’s creator is Lars Bak.[6] The first version of the V8 engine was released at the 
same time as the first version of Chrome: September 2, 2008. It has also been used 
in Couchbase, MongoDB and Node.js that are used server-side.
        V8 compiles JavaScript directly to native machine code before executing it, 
instead of more traditional techniques such as interpreting bytecode or compiling the 
whole program to machine code and executing it from a filesystem. The compiled 
code is additionally optimized (and re-optimized) dynamically at runtime, based on 
heuristics of the code's execution profile. Optimization techniques used 
include inlining, elision of expensive runtime properties, and inline caching. 
The garbage collector is a generational incremental collector.
        There are different JavaScript engines including Rhino, JavaScriptCore, 
and SpiderMonkey. These engines follow the ECMAScript Standards. ECMAScript 
defines the standard for the scripting language. JavaScript is based on ECMAScript 
standards. These standards define how the language should work and what features it 
should have.
The Chrome V8 engine :
*	The V8 engine is written in C++ and used in Chrome and Nodejs.
*	It implements ECMAScript as specified in ECMA-262.
*	The V8 engine can run standalone we can embed it with our own C++ 
program.


